docs: add docs for running a single Consul dc in multiple k8s clusters (#10508)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/k8s/installation/deployment-configurations/single-dc-multi-k8s.mdx

To deploy this, first we need to generate the Gossip encryption key and save it as a Kubernetes secret.

```shell
$ kubectl create secret generic consul-gossip-encryption-key --from-literal=key=$(consul keygen)
```

Now we can install our Consul cluster with Helm:
```shell
$ helm install cluster1 -f cluster1-config.yaml hashicorp/consul
```

~> Note that the Helm release name must be unique for each Kubernetes cluster.
That is because the Helm chart will use the Helm release name as a prefix for the
ACL resources that it creates, such as tokens and auth methods, and if the names of the Helm releases
are the same, the Helm installation in subsequent clusters will clobber existing ACL resources.

Once installation finishes and all components are running and ready,
we need to extract the gossip encryption key we've created, the CA certificate
and the ACL bootstrap token generated during installation,
so that we can apply them to our second Kubernetes cluster.

```shell
kubectl get secret  consul-gossip-encryption-key cluster1-consul-ca-cert cluster1-consul-bootstrap-acl-token -o yaml > cluster1-credentials.yaml
```

## Deploying Consul clients in the second cluster

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~> Note that if multiple Kubernetes clusters will be joined to the Consul Datacenter, then this step will need to be repeated for each additional Kubernetes cluster. 
```

To deploy, first we need to generate the Gossip encryption key and save it as a Kubernetes secret.

```shell
$ kubectl create secret generic consul-gossip-encryption-key --from-literal=key=$(consul keygen)
```

Now we can install our Consul cluster with Helm:
```shell
$ helm install cluster1 -f cluster1-config.yaml hashicorp/consul
```

~> **Note:** The Helm release name must be unique for each Kubernetes cluster.
That is because the Helm chart will use the Helm release name as a prefix for the
ACL resources that it creates, such as tokens and auth methods. If the names of the Helm releases
are the same, the Helm installation in subsequent clusters will clobber existing ACL resources.

Once the installation finishes and all components are running and ready,
we need to extract the gossip encryption key we've created, the CA certificate
and the ACL bootstrap token generated during installation,
so that we can apply them to our second Kubernetes cluster.

```shell
kubectl get secret consul-gossip-encryption-key cluster1-consul-ca-cert cluster1-consul-bootstrap-acl-token -o yaml > cluster1-credentials.yaml
```

## Deploying Consul clients in the second cluster

> ~> **Note:** If multiple Kubernetes clusters will be joined to the Consul Datacenter, then the following instructions below will need to be repeated for each additional Kubernetes cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
~> **Note:** If multiple Kubernetes clusters will be joined to the Consul Datacenter, then the following instructions will need to be repeated for each additional Kubernetes cluster.
```

For this, we will use Consul's cloud auto-join feature
for the [Kubernetes provider](https://www.consul.io/docs/install/cloud-auto-join#kubernetes-k8s).
To use it we need to provide a way for the Consul clients to reach the first Kubernetes cluster.
To do that, we need to save the `kubeconfig` for the first cluster as a Kubernetes secret in the second cluster
and reference it in the `clients.join` value. Note that we're making that secret available to the client pods
by setting it in `client.extraVolumes`.

~> **Note:** The kubeconfig you're providing to the client should have minimal permissions.
The cloud auto-join provider will only need permission to read pods.
Please see [Kubernetes Cloud auto-join](https://www.consul.io/docs/install/cloud-auto-join#kubernetes-k8s)
for more details.

Now we're ready to install!

```shell
helm install cluster2 -f cluster2-config.yaml hashicorp/consul
```

## Verifying the Consul Service Mesh works

Now that we have our Consul cluster in multiple k8s clusters up and running, we will
deploy two services and verify that they can connect to each other.

First, we'll deploy `static-server` service in the first cluster:

```yaml
---

> apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1

Reviewer 2: @david-yu , @ishustava  Getting 
`no matches for kind "ServiceIntentions" in version "consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1"`

Reviewer: Hi there. ServiceIntentions are supported when using Consul 1.9 and above, are you perhaps using a Consul 1.9+ image with the Helm values file?

Reviewer 2: Using 1.10 enterprise

Author: Hey @arbhatta-blk, just to confirm are you setting `controller.enabled` in your helm configuration?

Reviewer 2: yes. I've set it to true.

---
layout: docs
page_title: Single Consul Datacenter in Multiple Kubernetes Clusters - Kubernetes
description: Single Consul Datacenter deployed in multiple Kubernetes clusters
---

# Single Consul Datacenter in Multiple Kubernetes Clusters

> ~> Requires consul-helm v0.33.0 or higher.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
~> Requires consul-helm v0.32.0 or higher.
```
Is this a typo?

Reviewer: No this would require a new release of Consul Helm, our next version would be 0.33.0

Reviewer 3: Ah that makes sense! my bad!

Author: should I change it to 0.32.1?

Reviewer 3: I think that makes sense to go 0.32.1 given its a single commit release

This page describes how to deploy a single Consul datacenter in multiple Kubernetes clusters,
with both servers and clients running in one cluster, and only clients running in the rest of the clusters.
In this example, we will use two Kubernetes clusters, but this approach could be extended to using more than two.

> ~> We assume here that your Kubernetes clusters have a flat network

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
~> This deployment topology requires that your Kubernetes clusters have a flat network
```

We're also setting UI's service type to be `NodePort`.
This is needed so that we can connect to servers from another cluster without using the pod IPs of the servers,
which are likely going to change.

To deploy this, first we need to generate the Gossip encryption key and save it as a Kubernetes secret.

```shell
$ kubectl create secret generic consul-gossip-encryption-key --from-literal=key=$(consul keygen)
```

Now we can install our Consul cluster with Helm:
```shell
$ helm install cluster1 -f cluster1-config.yaml hashicorp/consul
```

~> Note that the Helm release name must be unique for each Kubernetes cluster.
That is because the Helm chart will use the Helm release name as a prefix for the
ACL resources that it creates, such as tokens and auth methods, and if the names of the Helm releases
are the same, the Helm installation in subsequent clusters will clobber existing ACL resources.

Once installation finishes and all components are running and ready,
we need to extract the gossip encryption key we've created, the CA certificate
and the ACL bootstrap token generated during installation,
so that we can apply them to our second Kubernetes cluster.

```shell

> kubectl get secret  consul-gossip-encryption-key cluster1-consul-ca-cert cluster1-consul-bootstrap-acl-token -o yaml > cluster1-credentials.yaml

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
kubectl get secret consul-gossip-encryption-key cluster1-consul-ca-cert cluster1-consul-bootstrap-acl-token -o yaml > cluster1-credentials.yaml
```
super nit, sorry
